README.md, before:

# Mopidy and Snapcast

This repo aims to provide an opinionated, containerized bundle of [Mopidy](https://github.com/mopidy/mopidy) and [Snapcast](https://github.com/badaix/snapcast) that runs on both an amd64 linux machine and a Raspberry Pi.  

## Development

To list the supported targets, run `make help`.

### Prerequisites

* git
* make
* [docker 20+](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

### Build the application
To build the application container image using [skaffold](https://skaffold.dev), run:
```sh
make image
```

### Deploy the application
To deploy the application using [skaffold](https://skaffold.dev), run:
```sh
make deploy
```
To deploy the application in debug mode (debug ports forwarded), stream its logs and redeploy on source code changes automatically, run:
```sh
make debug
```

To undeploy the application, run:
```sh
make undeploy
```

### Apply blueprint updates
To apply blueprint updates to the application codebase, update the [kpt](https://kpt.dev/) package:
1. Before updating the package, make sure you don't have uncommitted changes in order to be able to distinguish package update changes from others.
2. Call `make blueprint-update` or rather [`kpt pkg update`](https://kpt.dev/reference/cli/pkg/update/) and [`kpt fn render`](https://kpt.dev/reference/cli/fn/render/) (applies the configuration within [`setters.yaml`](./setters.yaml) to the manifests and `skaffold.yaml`).
3. Before committing the changes, review them carefully and make manual changes if necessary.

TL;DR: [Variant Constructor Pattern](https://kpt.dev/guides/variant-constructor-pattern)

## Release

The release process is driven by [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/), letting the CI pipeline generate a version and publish a release depending on the [commit messages](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/#commit-message-format) on the `main` branch.

Commit message:

feat: support PULSE_SERVER env var,fix termination
Make mopidy terminate gracefully when it receives termination signal.
Also adds `run-mopidy` target to Makefile, showing how to run the container against pulseaudio using docker only.

README.md, after:

# Mopidy and Snapcast

This repo aims to provide an opinionated, containerized bundle of [Mopidy](https://github.com/mopidy/mopidy) and [Snapcast](https://github.com/badaix/snapcast) that runs on both an amd64 linux machine and a Raspberry Pi.  

## Development

To list the supported targets, run `make help`.

### Prerequisites

* git
* make
* [docker 20+](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

### Build the application
To build the application container image using [skaffold](https://skaffold.dev), run:
```sh
make image
```

### Test the mopidy container using docker

To test container changes, you can run mopidy simply using docker with the pulseaudio unix socket and cookie mounted:
```sh
make run-mopidy
```

Once mopidy started, you can browse it at [`http://localhost:6680`](http://localhost:6680).

### Deploy the application
To deploy the application using [skaffold](https://skaffold.dev), run:
```sh
make deploy
```
To deploy the application in debug mode (debug ports forwarded), stream its logs and redeploy on source code changes automatically, run:
```sh
make debug
```

To undeploy the application, run:
```sh
make undeploy
```

### Apply blueprint updates
To apply blueprint updates to the application codebase, update the [kpt](https://kpt.dev/) package:
1. Before updating the package, make sure you don't have uncommitted changes in order to be able to distinguish package update changes from others.
2. Call `make blueprint-update` or rather [`kpt pkg update`](https://kpt.dev/reference/cli/pkg/update/) and [`kpt fn render`](https://kpt.dev/reference/cli/fn/render/) (applies the configuration within [`setters.yaml`](./setters.yaml) to the manifests and `skaffold.yaml`).
3. Before committing the changes, review them carefully and make manual changes if necessary.

TL;DR: [Variant Constructor Pattern](https://kpt.dev/guides/variant-constructor-pattern)

## Release

The release process is driven by [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/), letting the CI pipeline generate a version and publish a release depending on the [commit messages](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/#commit-message-format) on the `main` branch.
